---
title: "Great news for the jailbreaking world!"
slug: great-news-for-the-jb-world
comment_id: 5d93b51a97132a02c4355742
date: 2019-09-27T15:15:01.000Z
excerpt: "It looks like the great minds of our wonderful community never stop surprising us. Why? @axi0mX on Twitter published a bootrom exploit called checkm8, for all devices A5-A11."
header_image: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1526374965328-7f61d4dc18c5?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&q=80&fm=jpg&crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&w=1080&fit=max&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjExNzczfQ"
tags: 
 - "Jailbreak"
 - "Apple"
 - "Hacking"
---

<p>It looks like the great minds of our wonderful community never stop surprising us. Why? Well, 10 hours ago <a href="https://twitter.com/axi0mX">@axi0mX</a> on Twitter published this tweet:</p><figure class="kg-card kg-embed-card kg-card-hascaption"><blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">EPIC JAILBREAK: Introducing checkm8 (read &quot;checkmate&quot;), a permanent unpatchable bootrom exploit for hundreds of millions of iOS devices.<br><br>Most generations of iPhones and iPads are vulnerable: from iPhone 4S (A5 chip) to iPhone 8 and iPhone X (A11 chip). <a href="https://t.co/dQJtXb78sG">https://t.co/dQJtXb78sG</a></p>&mdash; axi0mX (@axi0mX) <a href="https://twitter.com/axi0mX/status/1177542201670168576?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 27, 2019</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
<figcaption>Truly amazing!</figcaption></figure><p>Yes, it's real. Yes, it's what you read. The exploit is called <strong>checkm8</strong>, and it's a bootrom exploit. For those of you who don't know what a bootrom exploit is, it's basically a program that makes advantage of a bug in your device's boot sequence (when the Apple logo is displayed, essentially) and allows us to take complete control over what we can and cannot do. Bootrom exploits <em>cannot</em> be patched by Apple with a software update; however they <em>can</em> and probably <em>will</em> be patched with new hardware revisions.</p><blockquote><strong>IMPORTANT NOTICE: This exploit is tethered, because it can only be enabled through an USB connection, which inevitably requires another device.</strong> This means: no untethered jailbreaks, no untethered downgrades, essentially everyting you do with this will result in your device being dependant on another device to boot.</blockquote><p>The awesome fact is that's compatible with most iPhones, iPads and iPod touches that have an A5, A6, A7, A8, A9, A10 or A11 SoC (and everything in-between), whihc is something truly amazing.</p><p>For another example, a bootrom exploit allows us to<strong> downgrade <em>without SHSH blobs</em></strong>. You can finally restore your iPhone 5S to iOS 7.1! Or, if you don't like iOS 13 on your iPhone X and want to restore to iOS 11 (which I don't see why but to each their own I guess), you can!</p><p>It’s been a long time since there’s been a bootrom exploit released to the public. The last instance was when the iPhone 4 was still the latest device back in 2010, and all exploits after that have been software-based and easily patchable in software updates.</p><p>It's not ready for users, though. As of now, the GitHub page only contains the exploit. Some skilled developer, like @Pwn20wnd, has to include/bundle it in a jailbreaking tool. In fact, @Pwn20wnd already expressed interest in this:</p><figure class="kg-card kg-embed-card kg-card-hascaption"><blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I might start working on a tool to generate custom IPSWs with Cydia and kernel patches — You should be able to jailbreak pretty much every firmware with something like that. <a href="https://t.co/0zYGsrJsd9">https://t.co/0zYGsrJsd9</a></p>&mdash; Pwn20wnd released #unc0ver with full A12 support (@Pwn20wnd) <a href="https://twitter.com/Pwn20wnd/status/1177549412978974720?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 27, 2019</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
<figcaption>I can't wait to see this!</figcaption></figure><p>Some users on Twitter already tried this exploit and sent their devices to <strong>pwned DFU</strong> (device firmware update) <strong>mode</strong>. That's because checkm8 is part of <strong>ipwndfu</strong>, a tool to send iDevices to DFU mode. Why is it important? Because custom IPSWs have to be restred with pwned DFU mode, this opens up a world of possibilities. Heck, one could even be an IPSW to install Android 10 on an iPhone X (which was not possible and isn't possible until someone makes it).</p><p>So here's for this post, share it if you liked it. See you next post!</p>